Everybody ready?
>> Okay. So, we're going to bring our
meeting to order.
>> Public hearing.
>> Public hearing. Our public period order.
Okay. So, we are application
application number 25 VBA. Uh Sweden
seeking a variance. And so now it's time
for us to hear from the African.
Shall I take it over? Okay, wonderful.
Um, my name is Lori Riser. I'm the Kahan
Prince Capistella. I'm a land use
attorney. I'm representing Steven
Rockefeller and I have Andrew Bushnell
who prepared the plans here with us as
well. Um before I get into it, uh we can
either um show this the plan on the
screen which is kind of small and busy
or we have a few fulls size prints of
the plan that we had submitted and
perhaps be easiest for me to pass them
around for everyone to share and look
at. Would that be
>> trying to get on the strategic
>> roots?
Maybe
I'm sorry.
>> Yeah, I'm not here. The order is right.
>> Sorry.
>> Mr.
We should probably know which board
members are present. Oh, sure.
>> Sorry.
>> Okay.
>> So, board members present, uh, Fred
Oliver,
>> Joan Ross,
>> Jeffrey Valard, Ballard,
>> Captain Skork, and Michael.
>> Pass the other ones already.
>> Okay. So we have we have four regular
and two organizing
being recorded.
>> We have poor regular member. No, three
regular members. Me, Julia, and Kathy.
>> Okay. And uh and there are um uh two
alternates. Correct.
>> Three alternates. What are you, Jeff?
>> I'm an alternate.
>> Okay. So then we I'm not an alternate.
>> Oh, okay. I'm sorry. So Michael was a
regular. We have new people. So I don't
>> Okay, that's all right. So what did the
command?
>> We have how many pool members?
>> Four and two.
>> Two. Okay. Thank you.
>> That's right. Got some new members on
board. is
>> um so now that you have the plan in
front of you, I'd like to just walk you
through it and orientate you as to where
we are and talk about um what the
proposal involves. Um so my client is
the owner of 45 and 47 Lakeside Drive.
And you can see that on the plan. 45 is
the lot on the left and 47 is the lot
that's more long and rectangular on the
right.
Um they're on uh um you know in between
Lakeside Drive and Andover Lake and they
are both um separate lots at this point
and there is an existing house on each
of the lots at this point. My client and
his family live in 47 and 45 is
presently used as a rental property.
What they propose to do is to merge the
two lots. Now, the two lots in and of
themselves are each undersized. They're
they're smaller than what the zoning
regulations require. I assume you have a
lot of those on Andover Lakes. That's
very common with lake properties.
What my client would like to do is merge
the two lots to one, thereby um
increasing getting rid of one
non-conforming lot and increasing the
size of the resulting lot to not
conforming, but certainly more
conforming. It's it's still not um large
enough. We don't have enough space to
make it large enough the actual
regulations, but it will become more
conforming. Um when the two lots become
one, the plan is to eliminate the house
on 45 Lakeside Drive, which is again
that longer, narrower rectangular lot
there. Eliminate that house. Um and
along with that, the walkways will be
eliminated. and my client would like to
add an addition to the house that Vena's
family lives in. Uh the addition you can
see on the plan, it's marked proposed
addition. It's got a 1,180
square ft in size. Now, this addition is
uh at the closest point 36.45
ft from the lake. Now the existing house
that is not being touched and not being
changed and is protected as a legal
non-conforming um structure is uh 9.64
ft presently from the edge of the lake.
So this addition is further back from
the lake than the actual houses.
Um, and my client also would like to
build, you could see it on the plan as
well, a proposed wood shop area that is
up um, in the area of what is still
presently 45 Lakeside. Um, and it's it's
labeled proposed shop and it shows the
impervious area as 832 square feet. That
will be a personal use workshop only. He
doesn't intend to have any commercial
operations running out of there. He's
not using it as a home occupation. He's
not using it for rental purposes. It
will be for storage such as a boat. Um
it will have exercise equipment in it.
It will have a hopefully a slop sink
because it's going to be a workshop.
It'll be hobby space. Um so that's
what's proposed for right there. We've
situated it so it's directly adjoining
the existing paved driveway that serves
the house that's coming down and that's
presently on that lot.
Um, so there is no I'll tell you what's
not changing. The existing house at 47's
not changing. The existing garage at
47's not changing. Okay. Um, and so
those are not changing.
So,
what we're doing is eliminating a
non-conforming lot, merging it into
another adjacent non-conforming lot, and
we're eliminating an a lot of existing
nonconformities,
and we're going to talk mostly about
that tonight. I know with variances, and
some of you are new members, some of you
have been here. Um, variances, you're
usually talking about hardship, right?
You know what that term is? It's you
need a legal hardship that's unique to
the land in order to justify the
granting of variance. That's normally
what you're here looking at. We're not
even going to really use that word
tonight. Tonight we're talking about a
reduction in nonconformities because
there's a whole line of cases um that
stand for the proposition that an
independent basis for granting a
variance is you don't have to find a
hardship but you have to prove you're
reducing existing nonconformities and
making the parcel more conforming. It's
called the um Adulson exception and it's
based on a line of cases that again
started um in about 1988 and again say
if you are reducing nonconformities that
is an independent basis for granting a
variance. Now the adults case dealt with
replacing one existing non-conforming
use with another. a variance was granted
to replace a non-conforming use with
another non-conforming use that was more
conforming, closer to what the overall
zone wanted. In that case, it was going
from an existing foundry use to a car
repair shop. So they the courts held
after the after the variance was upheld,
the courts upheld it saying that's
that's making the property more
conforming. We're going in the right
direction.
So sometimes this line of cases stand
for um replacing one non-conforming use
with another. It's also used extensively
to support the granting of variances of
your bulk area regulations, your
setbacks. So, if you are changing a
property and you are um
if you have an existing property and
you're doing something that's still not
quite conforming, but let's say you're
moving a structure, you're renovating a
structure and you're making instead of
10 feet from the sideyard, you're making
it 15 feet and let's say there's a 20
sideyard that is reducing a setback uh
um nonconformity. Again, the the adults
cases and a whole line of cases that
follow support that again it's a
reduction in nonconformity whether it be
with regard to a setback or a use and
and um it's an independent ground for
granting the variances.
Um, I have a number of cases and I don't
want to bog you down with case sites and
case details, but I can certainly
provide you information if you want, but
there are a number of cases that support
the granting of a variant when you are
consolidating
nonconforming lots to support a
development. So there are cases that say
if you have three non-conforming lots
and they're undeveloped and there's and
you want to develop on them if you're if
you still need a variance to develop but
you're making it two more conforming
lots and so you reduce the extent of the
variances you need they support that
there's a line of cases that go again
you consolidate non-conforming lots
reduce them in number to have a more
compliant development whether it's 3 to
two to one here two to one All right,
we're doing two non-conforming knots
into one and eliminating a number or or
reducing a number of existing
nonconformities.
Um so let's go through what the
non-conformities are that we're going to
um improving.
I had given you um a summary of
non-conformities as part of the
application. I don't know if you all
have it there in front of you. It was
revised on September 24th, but I'm just
going to take you step by step through
them.
So, let's talk about 47 lakeside first.
We know that that lot is presently
non-conforming with regard to lot area.
It's nonconforming with regard to lot
width. The existing garage on it, which
is staying the same, is non-conforming
with regard to the front yard.
The um existing house is non-conforming
with regard to the year rear yard. I had
mentioned that at its closest point,
it's only 9.64 ft from the lake. Uh and
the sideyard, the sideyard right now,
this is nonconforming with regard to the
sideyard. Um the existing garage is 7.65
ft.
So, and the coverage is non-conforming.
It's more than 12%. So, there's a lot of
non-conformities there, right? um 45
independent and on his own before the
merger has a lot of non-conformities too
with regard to area width the rear and
side yard with regard to the existing
house there and coverage. Well, when we
combine these two parcels as being
proposed
right now, our lot area is still going
to be non-conforming. We still don't
have the required 60,000 square ft, but
gosh, I bet there's not too many
properties on Andover Lake that actually
have that um that that minimum square
footage, but we're getting more
conforming because we add the two
properties together. Now, we're at
26,890
square ft. Lot width. Once these two
lots, it becomes totally conforming. We
have a conforming lot width, which is
200 feet. Okay. Um the front yard again
the existing garage is not changing. So
that nonconformity stays untouched and
stays the same. So this isn't that the
merger doesn't affect that at all. Okay.
That stays blessed as it is. It's not
being changed at all. Okay. Um there is
another front yard nonconformity. We
already have one. Remember, we already
have the garage that's um 32.76
from the center line of the road with
the prop addition of the proposed
workshop that will be within that same
front yard too, but not quite as close.
Um we're showing it here on as 43.46
ft from the center line and it's
required to be 50 feet. So, although
it's still in the front yard like the
existing garage is, it's further back
than the existing garage, um, then we're
at 43.46
ft. Um, I know that there was a note in
a comment in um, your zoning agent's
memo about can that be moved to a more
conforming location, at least maybe
pushed back to meet the 50 ft. Um, I
believe we can accommodate that. So if
the the reason we put it here is again
it's directly adjacent to the paved
patio. But if you felt more comfortable
with us pushing it back to the 50 ft
from center line I believe we can as a
condition of approval if you see fit um
revise the plan accordingly to make that
happen. Excuse me. Just for the record
Mark a question for you. If that
happens, will it will it encroach on the
set back to Andover Lake or
>> No, it's outside of the setback to
Andover Lake because the Andover Lake
setback the rear is 75.
I I don't think we would be within the
75t rear yard setback.
>> Andrew, can you confirm that for me?
>> I thank you.
>> Yeah, I think we're still far enough
away.
Um,
so so again, so that's the front yard.
Now, the rear yard setback with the lot
merger and the proposal in front of you.
Again, we're not changing the existing
house at 47, which is 9.64 ft from the
lake. We're not changing that. That
stays the same. That's that's blessed,
if you will, under your, you know,
current regulations to stay exactly how
it is. Now, the addition, I said, is
going to be an addition. It is within
the um Andover Lake setback. Um, but
it's further away than the existing
houses at 47. So, it's more conforming.
Um, and it's going to be pushed to 36.45
ft back from the lake. Um,
let's see. The sideyard. We're going to
be getting rid of one sideyard violation
because remember I mentioned the house
at 47 presently violates the sideyard to
45.
But when we merge those two lots, that
goes away. But we will still And by the
way, the sideyard violation on 45 where
the existing house is, that goes away
because that house is coming down. There
will still be a sideyard encroachment
for the proposed workshop.
That is going to be 14 just under 15 ft
from the sideyard. 14.94 ft based on
this point. Okay. And um it is further
from the sideyard than the house at 45
that's going to be coming down. Um that
was only 12.41 ft. So this is further
away this. So we've got an increased
sideyard setbackard than what was
previously on this parcel. Okay. Um and
the coverage is going to be slightly
reduced. Not a ton, but slightly
reduced. Um it's going from 25.24
down to 25.14.
Okay. So there's a slight reduction in
coverage too. So I I I I don't want to
belabor it, but the reason I'm going
through all the reduction in
nonconformities is because that's the
basis that we're asking you to grant
this variance on. Again, not your
traditional hardship. We are saying
because of the reduction in
nonconformities and in one case a
complete elimination of non-conformity.
We're we're completely eliminating the
um lot with um nonconformity
um and I guess if you say we're
completely eliminating some
nonconformities with regard to um 45
because now all that's being uh subsumed
into 47
um that is our basis for requesting this
variance and I think that there's
extensive case law that gives you
discretion to review those um reductions
and use that as a basis for a decision.
Now I will tell you um the case law also
says any reduction in nonconformities
can support a variance. You don't have
to demonstrate that it's the most
reduction you could possibly achieve. Um
I mean you know so any reduction in um
of nonconformities is enough. So we
don't have to be looking at like well
what are the other alternatives? Can you
reduce it more? Can you move it a little
bit more? Can you can you shrink the
coverage a little bit more? um that's
not where the cases go. They say if
we're reducing it, that that's a that's
a basis right there.
Um and the last thing I want to touch on
is um and this was there's a new memo
from your zoning agent dated today and
and he says he also wants you to
consider whether
whether the addition
constitutes an increase in the existing
nonconformity
with regard to the dwelling at 37. Um
and he cites the section 4.1.4 of your
regulations that talks about if a
structure is nonconforming with respect
to setbacks um it can't be enlarged or
expanded in a way such to increase the
size or volume of the nonconformity. Um
that is again that's a section of your
regulations we're asking for a variance
from. We're asking for a variance of two
things. that section increasing a
nonconformity, but we're also asking for
a variance of of your setbacks, your
your general setbacks because all based
on this reduction or elimination of
nonconformities.
There's one case in specific I want to
um just reference to you and it's a
fairly new case. It came out in July of
2024 and I've lectured on it and since
the materials that I use for my
lectures. It's called Bernstein vers
West VBA and it's kind of on point to
Wayne's most recent comment. Um in that
case I can hold on.
>> Sorry.
>> That's fine. that stuff. In that case,
um, a variance was upheld where an
existing sideyard nonconformity was
reduced. So, here we're talking about,
so we had a sideard sideyard
non-conformity. What they wanted to do
in that case was do an addition. They
were expanding the structure within the
sideyard, but no closer to the actual
lot line. Okay? So, so let's say the
setback was they let's say they were 10
ft from the lot line. They were
expanding within the setback, but no
closer than what had already existed to
the lot line. Kind of what I'm talking
about here. And the court evaluated
strictly the distance between the
structure and the side property line
rather than the volume of the overall
structure within that area. So again and
the concept of an addition being added.
So so the volume of intrusion if you
will in the setback increased but the
overall setback didn't increase and the
court held there that even though the
volume of the structure in the area
would increase from what it had been the
overall distance to the side property
line was being reduced. Again your
reduction in nonconformity and there
they upheld the granting of the
variance. Um, again that was out of
Westbrook in 2024. Um, so so I I think
there's extensive case law to support
what we're asking of you. Um, and um,
I'm hoping that I've presented all of
that in in an understandable manner. If
you have any questions regarding the
improvements, um, uses of it, locations
of it, the law, please feel free to ask
me and we can obtain those now,
>> Mr. Oh, sorry. Go ahead,
>> okay, I have some questions.
>> I just had one thing.
Riser finished her presentation. Would
you also discuss with the board the
harmony requirement? It's an element of
variances
>> in harmony with the comprehensive plan.
Yes, I will. So, so, so variances, as
your town attorney is talking about, um,
variances are typically you would need a
hardship and you would also need to
prove that they're in harmony with the
overall comprehensive plan.
Comprehensive plan is isn't your plan of
conservation and development. It's
what's the layout? What's the pattern of
development that's happening in the
surrounding area? Um, and again, we're
away from hardship now. Um, we're
talking about reduction and
non-conformities, but the element of of
conformity with your comprehensive plan
is still it's still something to be
considered. So, you want to look at
what's happening here as it relates to
what the development is like in the
surrounding area. Okay. What are the
other properties in the surrounding area
look like? Well, we know most of the
properties are undersized, right? This
is up in Andover Lake. most of them are
under size and non-conforming um with
regard to size. That probably also then
is non-conforming with regard to lot
width. That's also probably
non-conforming with regard to lake
setbacks, maybe front road set, you
know, from the center line of the road
and sideyard setbacks. I can't tell you
what all of the exact setback
non-conformities might be on the
surrounding property, but I bet you see
them often. I bet you see people coming
in here often to talk about them. And
I'm sure there's been a number of
variances that have been granted um or
existing non-conformities that exist in
the Andover Lake area. And based on that
and and and how this property
works itself into the overall pattern of
development up at the lake, we don't
think there's anything that that's being
done here that is out of keeping with
what's happening up at the lake. So
based on that I think you can find that
the request is consistent with the
comprehensive plan. It's consistent with
the pattern of development you see out
there.
>> Did that fairly answer your question?
>> Um so I'm not a lawyer.
I had a little, you know, the required
to in this position, but I have a case
that
states
holding under applicable zoning
regulations proposed expansion of second
floor of non-conforming house on
non-conforming law, expansion of second
floor
was not permitted even though setbacks
would be more conforming. So the fact
that reducing
setbacks I don't think gives you a blank
slate.
>> Can you tell me the name of that case
because I think I think I know it. I
just want to make sure
>> versus zoning board of appeals 291.
>> I'm sorry. Which one was the first name?
>> Loom.
>> That sounds familiar to me. I think that
case and Mark, attorney France, correct
me if I'm wrong. I think that case when
it talked about um even though it was a
reduction, it wasn't less offensive. And
that's really there's a couple of
interesting cases that came out about
that as to is this really less
offensive.
It's a I think that's a superior court
case. Um and there are a couple of
superior court cases and I say that
because it's not binding precedent. But
I say that because there's a couple
superior court cases where they said um
you know is it really less offensive to
have this second story
um or to have the setback where it was?
And if if I'm thinking of the right
case, I think there were some neighbors
who were complaining in that case who
didn't like the second story because
they said it created a direct line of
sight into their bedrooms and they said
they felt that was an intrusion. Um, so
that's Do you remember this case?
>> I I for the record, Mark Brands, I
remember that case, but I don't think
it's this one. And let me But let me
back up. You read it kind of fast. It
was talking about a second floor.
>> It was, but I but I'm just the general
principle.
I'm just a layman, but to me, the
general principle
>> um you know, the fact that they were
reducing setbacks didn't allow them to,
you know, override maybe like our
section 42.
Let me just conf the an increase a
vertical increase in some towns a
vertical increase within the required
setback in some towns is an expansion of
the nonconformity other it is it depends
on your local regulation but um the I
would say that this comes into the
harmony requirement right I mean they're
proposing a workshop with a it's not a
full second floor but a second floor you
can certainly consider Sure. Sorry.
>> In addition,
>> the addition of the workshop.
>> No, I was talking about the workshop.
Okay. The the workshop has a stairway.
It appears to have a second floor of
some kind. Okay. That's something you
can consider in determining whether the
the total variance is commensurate with
the reduction in nonconformity. But a
variance by its by its nature is
something that allows something
prohibited by the zoning regulations. So
whether they're going out or up, they
still need a variance if that helps.
Yeah. Well, so
I feel like um I mean you know our
committee will discuss it and come to a
decision but as far as
like the addition on the house which is
increasing the space of existing
nonconformity which is you know our
regulations say is prohibited without
but I feel like we should have what is
the unique hardship that is the addition
Yeah,
>> they're they're not I mean Triny Raj is
correct that this reduction in
nonconformity is a valid basis for a
variance even without hardship. And the
book you're reading from discusses the
Yosson case. I I know it's there because
>> well could be but there
you know and do my job.
>> Yeah. But but but but in terms of the
the total volume of building that
they're proposing as compared to what
they're eliminating, that is something
you are allowed to consider in reviewing
this variance. That's that is proper I
>> but they don't have to show hardship or
that's not the basis of their
application and they're allowed to do
that.
And and that's the reason I had
mentioned that um relatively new
Bernstein case because that was a very
onpoint specific case that held even
though the volume of the structure is
increasing within the setback. If the
setback itself is not um increasing and
if it's being diminished then the court
upheld the granting of a variance in
that case. So, so that's just something
for you to consider as well.
>> Okay. So, I will present to
So, I I just feel like you're reducing
and I agree it's great to reduce the
nonconformities, but then you're adding
a non Well, you said maybe you would
push back the workshop so we don't add
that nonconformity to that lot, right?
because you're trading you're you're
reducing some of the sideyard
nonconformities, but then the shed is
too close to the road. And then we're
extending the lakeside nonconformity
even though it's less than the original
house, but it's new. So, you're creating
more nonconformity there. So, when when
does it become a wash? I I don't know.
Well, and I would say
>> that's a legitimate part you'd ask.
>> Yeah, I think so, too. But I would say
it's it's a wash with regard to coverage
because we're really we're minutely um
decreasing the coverage from where the
existing is. But I want you to keep in
mind that with regard to the lake, so
the existing house which can is
protected is staying is 9.64.
The house that's coming down is 42.55
ft. That's that's within the lake
setback, the 75 ft lake setback. And
that's a whole house structure that's
coming down. We are proposing to add the
addition in which is actually slightly
smaller in footprint than the structure
that's coming down and that's going to
be 36.45 ft. So it's we're stepping
back, right? We're stepping back from
the closest point. Not quite as far back
as the house that's coming down. We are
replacing the house that's coming down
with the addition, but we are still
significantly further back. And I think
footprint-wise, the
existing house that's coming down is 13
just over 1300 square foot. And the
footprint of the existing addition is is
1180 square ft.
>> And how big is the what's the square
footage of the workshop?
>> The square footage of the workshop is
300 832
square ft.
And again, if need be, we can push that
and slightly realign it so that it's um
you know, beyond the 50 foot setback. We
we put it there so not to have to extend
any um pvious or impervious driveway
extending further to it. It's just
directly, you know, kitty corner and
adjacent to the existing driveway.
specific.
>> Sure.
>> Hi, I'm very new here. Um, also not an
attorney.
>> Um, was just wondering the Jane Austin
case.
>> Um, it it it appears that the court
upheld it because it um
>> had an overall reduction of
nonconformity. So like there must have
been like a scorecard kind of type deal.
So I think that's what I'm sorry. I
think that might be what you're touching
on is like it's like how how can we
score
>> the um
the overall reduction of nonconformity
versus what is being also then replaced
with new nonconformity
>> and that's what I tried to lay out for
you with the summary of non-conforming
to show you the situations where um you
know I I clearly know this is being um
eliminated with the lot. There's one,
two, three, four, five, five
non-conformities being eliminated with
the lot merger because they all relate
to the house at 45 and that lot. Um, and
then when I did the combined parcels and
I took you through, okay, the lot area
is more conforming. The lot width now is
totally conforming. And then the the um
front yard is more conforming than the
existing garage at 47. The rear yard is
more conforming than the existing house
at 47. And the sideyard is more
conforming. The sideyard for the the
shed, the woodshed is more conforming
than the house that's being taken down.
So that's further back than what's
existing, you know, condition right now.
So I I I tried to lay it out kind of as
a scorecard. So you could balance it all
out and say, you know, as long as we're
not creating nonconformities that didn't
exist, which I don't believe we are
because so many nonconformities existed,
right? Then it's something for you to
evaluate. And and and I do want to to
remind you the cases we say it's not
eliminate them to the greatest extent
you possibly can um or reduce them to
the greatest extent you probably can
possibly can. There is a basis in law
that as long as they are being net
reduced that is sufficient basis for
under under the Adolfson line of cases
or adults I'm sorry if I'm pronouncing
it wrong um for granting the variance.
So, does that argue that
any decrease in nonconformity,
regardless of how it's balanced with an
increase in nonconformity,
um removes the necessity of the hardship
argument,
>> any decrease in non in in an elimination
or reduction in nonconformities,
yes, eliminates the hardship
>> requirement.
So then, okay, that seems that seems to
indicate that we're out of business then
because it seems like anyone could a
little tweak onto their house and say,
"Well,
>> you know,
>> if you have an existing non-conforming
situation, you don't always, right? I
mean, yeah, I'm here to certain."
>> Yeah. So, that that's the whole point of
that argument. seems like it almost
invalidates the purpose of even having
uh uh of even trying to rule on zoning
variances on the lake because
>> let me clarify one thing for you. Um
there if you're creating a nonconformity
that didn't previously exist,
>> that's a problem. You can't be creating
all these new nonformities and there's
some cases that talk about that. But I
don't believe we're creating a non new
nonconformities here because again we
already have a front yard
non-conformity. We already have a
sideyard non-conformity. We already have
a rear yard non-conformity. It's not
like let's say this was completely
compliant with regard to rear yard and
like said back before um and now all of
a sudden we're you know we've reduced to
other non-conformities but now we're
encroaching in the rear yard. We we're
not creating a brand new nonconformity.
So so that's a little differentiation
also. That still gives you some control
there to make sure people don't try and
come in and get creative. Say, "Oh,
well, we're doing better here, but now
we're totally creating all these other
problems." Um, again, you've got to look
at the big picture and overall what
exists for non-conformities. Make sure
you're not creating a new con
non-conformity and are you making those
existing nonconformities
better? I I would argue that if you
treat both lots as separate
um you are create with the proposed
workshop you're creating a new
non-conformity
>> with regard to
>> with regard to the set well currently
the setback from the center line but
also the sideyard neighbor at 43
>> well and I would just counter by saying
there is an existing sideyard
nonconformity with regard to the house
that's there right now and this is
further back
>> new structure
Well, it's just whether
>> because you said you you said new
structure.
>> Yeah. You Yeah. However, if you had this
house um and I wanted to take down the
house and rebuild a house, I could do it
up to that sideyard still.
I I could still build up to the existing
encroachment and that footprint. So So
just because I'm building a woodshed in
a house further back, I don't think that
really changes anything. Um I I I can I
can hear your point with regard to the
front yard on 45 itself. There's no
front yard setback right now. That's a
non-conformity. But again, we can fix
that. We can move that out. Um but the
sideyard setback right now that's
protected and grandfathered is what is
that? Um bear with me please.
>> Well, the shop is 14.94, but I don't see
the
>> the house itself is
>> 12 something.
>> 12 something. Yeah. 12.41 41 ft off. So,
so we're further back than the existing
sideyguy guard non-conformity that's
protected and you know we have a vested
right in maintaining if we want it.
So by how much so and I know you went
through this and I discount the the
proposed addition on 247
>> how much does that encroach into any any
set of racks
>> that the only setback it encroaches into
is the rear yard setback and then that's
a 75 ft setback from the lake and the
closest point the closest corner of this
of the of the addition is 36.45 ft and
it's kind of on an angle. So the
furthest point is 49.47
ft.
>> So it's supposed to be So it's supposed
to be 75 and asking for roughly 50
>> between 36 and 50 whereas again the
existing house which is protected.
>> Right. So the addition so we're talking
about the the adding nonconformities.
>> Right. Right.
>> So that's Yep. So it varies between 36
and 50.
>> So how would this play out if there was
no addition and no uh garage that no new
building? How would that play out in
terms of uh
>> well my client wouldn't be merging the
two lots and losing a rental income to
not have that? they would they would
just say status quo then and you'd have
two existing non-conforming lots that
are um vastly undersized and vastly
non-conforming more so than this plan
proposes. I mean, I I do believe with
all sincerity going from the current
condition with two houses on small lots
and the existing setback encroachments
to one house a bit bigger now. Um, but
with the associated setback
encroachments, it's it's an overall
more conforming lot. You're further from
the required property lines. Um, I think
it's a better plan. It's a It's
definitely This one lot is definitely
more conforming than the two separate
standalone lots as they are today.
I have a question.
I'm trying to wrap my head around this.
This is my first time here.
in the if the plan is built out as
proposed, there'll be the house
>> with an addition
an existing garage
>> with one corner closer to the road than
probably is generally allowed. Correct.
>> The existing garage. Yeah, that's saying
the same. That's
correct.
>> And the proposed shop
>> is a little further back from the road,
but that would remain. And the only
thing that will come out of this is the
entire house on the second lot. Correct.
>> Yes. The house on the second lot would
come out.
>> So in the end there would be
three buildings on the double lot.
>> Three buildings. And right now you have
three buildings on the on two lots. So
So same amount of structures.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> So it's Yeah, it's the same number of
structures. Yeah.
>> Yeah. And and one more thing that I
could I would like to add with all of
these proposed changes, we will now
actually be also having a code compliant
septic system. The health department's
been involved and we don't have that
now, right? Um so so right now with all
these changes where there there's going
to be a significant improvement to the
health code compliance issue as as well,
>> right? That's a great thing, but that's
not in our purview.
>> No, it's not. But when you when you know
it's a benefit goes into the overall
evaluation is is what you've got status
quo with the two separate lots now
better than what this proposal is. Does
this become a better fit for the lake
and more compliant with your
regulations? I think it's something to
be you know
>> you know factored in.
>> Yeah. Um so my one of my concerns is
just with the the size of the structure.
So if we look at square footage on the
lot
>> uh which plays into say pollution in the
lake and things like that, we're talking
about adding on 674 square ft of
>> impervious coverage.
>> I'm sorry. How much did you say?
>> 674. So you have the the existing the
house that's slated to be torn down.
>> Man, someone might want to check on
that.
>> I think it's about 2,000 square feet.
>> Well, from what I read
>> between the shop and the addition. So
the existing 47 is listed at
>> 21 07 2,17 ft.
>> So I have that as 1338.
>> Okay.
>> What else?
>> Says the existing house 47 Lakeside.
>> Oh, that's that's 45 40. Yes. Sorry. 45.
>> It's going to be torn down.
>> Y.
>> So that's 1338
>> according to this. Okay. And then we're
talking So that's removing improper
coverage. M um and then we're talking
adding on 832 for the workshop
>> and 1180 for the addition.
>> Mhm.
>> So that gives us a minus of 1338 and a
positive of 2012.
>> Right.
>> So that's an overall increase in
impervious surfaces.
>> But we there's actually some removal of
driveway, walkway, and other impervious
areas. So that's how we were able to get
to the overall overall reduction in
coverage. Um Andrew, you want to just
take them through what else is coming
out for impervious?
>> Right. So, so the I'm Andrew Bushnell
with Bushnell Associates. Um the paved
driveway is currently there now 45 is
going to be taken out and replaced with
perable uh pavers.
>> Okay.
>> And then there's that brick walkway
um from the 45 to the existing driveway
that's going to be eliminated.
um that was even though it's brick
constructed as impervious brick um
surface. So okay that's impervious. So
that's that's being taken away. Um
and um
I think those two if you had those in I
think that would balance it out there
slight decrease.
>> So what is your your calculation for the
impervious surface with that? Well, so
you're going to take another 420 off for
the driveway and the walkway is 262.
>> Okay. So, you're talking an increase of
262. No, no, you take taking off 262 a
reduction of 262 square feet of
impervious area for that walkway
>> and then a reduction of 420 ft of
impervious because of the change in the
paved driveway to imperous I mean to
pave.
>> Okay,
>> so that's that's another 682 square ft
of impervious area. There must be more
though because we are going from Oh,
maybe it's just a factor of the size. I
was gonna say because we're going from
25.24
back to 25.14, but we also've got a
larger lot size. So, I take that.
>> Strike that.
>> Yeah.
>> I will say with the with the septic too,
you're actually creating less sewage
going from one house, two houses to one
house.
>> Okay. So, do we have some reassurance if
this goes forward that that say that
permeable driveway and walkway will
remain in perpetuity or you know could
could someone say well I don't like this
stuff I'm just going to pave it and
therefore will be
>> well it's a condition of approval if
it's shown on the approved plan and and
and the the variance is tied to the
approved plan if it were to be changed
in the future it would be a violation so
there would be zoning enforcement action
>> okay because I don't think it's within
the town zoning laws right now for I
know in some coastal areas they have
they require impervious driveway for new
construction and stuff.
>> No, there's no required
>> but later on
>> should the board approve the variance um
then within as far as the zoning permit
process uh we have to go through the uh
nutrient allocation plan and stuff like
that. Um,
>> okay.
>> But that that's not for the way I
understand it, that's that's that's not
for this body to
>> that's part of the zoning permit
approval.
>> Zoning permit approval.
>> Mr. Chairman, I may rec
um the new workshop I seen it has a
bathroom on the for on the floor plan. I
assume it's going to be tied into the
septic system. it it will be tied into
the septic system, but we've just been
advised by the health department that
they won't allow us to have a full
bathroom there. So, that was probably
going to end up having to be changed to
just being a slap sink.
>> Right. And what is the There's no floor
plan for the second floor.
>> Oh, I you know what? We hadn't planned
this out yet. Um the Can I just hand out
real quick? These are full size floor
plans for
weaving again the reduced size.
Um
easier to go there and then
these are the floor plans and writings
of both the audition and the
workshop. If you go to the last page,
that'll that'll give you the outline for
the workshop. I believe
>> the workshop at the very end look to
that.
So the first floor
>> So you don't want to spend that time.
What's that?
>> You want to explain to them the um
before we get into that, can can we just
give Steve a couple minutes to just walk
everyone through what the floor plans
look like? Do you want to do that?
>> You want to start or
>> I I can if you like.
>> Yeah. I mean, go ahead. You're on a
roll. Okay.
>> All right. So, the workshop we're at the
last page of the floor plan so you can
see what it looks like from the outside,
the west elevation, the east elevation,
north and south. The first floor is
going to be really open. It's going to
be for boat storage and that's going to
be all the workshop area. Okay. You see
where it shows a bath now? That will
likely have to change based on health
department approval. We're hoping to be
able to at least keep a slap sink in
there. I'm about to wash your hands. You
know, you get dirty and you're working
with a woman.
>> This
the second floor when you go up the
stairs, you can see the layout here is
bigger room proposed to be primarily Oh,
sorry.
>> No question. We're just trying to get on
the right page here.
>> Okay, hang on. Because the tape will not
pick up two people at works.
>> We are on B-1.0.
>> There you go. Okay.
>> Okay. Sorry.
>> Right. Tell me when you're there and
then Okay.
>> Okay. So, the second floor, you can see,
is a big open room, and that's really
just going to be laid out as a as an
exercise room. Um, so it's it's kind of
just open area now and and I know
there's some sensitivity as to, you
know, having um whether it's an ADU or
an unpermitted um um uh VBO kind of
place, short-term rental there. Um, if
my client wanted to rent this out, we
wouldn't be knocking down the rental
property we had right now. We have no
intentions of using this as a dwelling
unit. Um, it's really storage. It's
personal hobby and workshop space. Um,
again, if he wanted to continue to be
renting out a lakeside property, he
would leave things the way things are
and keep the house because he does have
a full house on 45 right now for that.
So,
>> well, is that another thing that if this
goes forward would be inconspounced into
the zoning on the property?
Sorry.
>> So if this goes forward, um would that
be written into the property rules that
say this
>> you would make that a condition of your
>> turn into unit
>> conditions.
>> Okay.
>> Again, tie it to your approval
specifically to this plan which doesn't
show any dwelling space in there.
>> And and the draft motion Mr. cast and I
worked on this afternoon already has
some language of that kind, but we can
amplify that if you if that's the
direction to go.
>> I don't know if you're at all interested
in seeing the floor plans for the
renderings of the addition. We have
those. We can take you through them as
well. They're in this packet, too.
>> Um,
>> so
we can we go over the the bathroom in in
workshop.
>> All right. So you you said that uh
Eastern Highlands Health District wasn't
going to permit the connection to the
septic.
>> Well, yeah, they won't permit the
connection because it needs to count as
flow for another bedroom and they can't
make the septic any bigger. So it's not
that they won't permit it, it's that
they can't because we can't show a
bigger
>> but it will connect. Correct. Well, what
we'd like the proposal now would be to
just connect a slap sink and not have a
toilet
>> and
see where that where that goes. Just
have to have a sink in there, but no
toilet.
>> But you don't know that that's going to
be allowed either.
>> Not 100%. No.
>> So, we will have to obviously modify the
interior
um sanitary facilities to comply with
whatever the health court ultimately
will allow us to do. I don't expect that
to change though the location of the
improvements on the property. So we
don't think it would necessarily impact
the variance application before the
poor.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Any other questions? Um would you
like me to take you through this for the
edition?
>> Jeff Bor was on the Four Lake Road. Um,
I'm very familiar with Steve's property
and and the buildings on it. And I'm
very fortunate to have a double lot on
174 Lake Road. And my question for for
steam war the designers is why you know
how fortunate did I other than my garage
which I had to get very small for which
is the same size as your your workshop
um to try and get it into the center of
the property and and move the the
proposed uh shop to the to the rear of
the existing garage or closer to the
center of the property and offset the
addition towards the existing garage to
increase the setback from the lake.
>> Yeah, grading issues.
>> Excuse me.
>> Grading issues there. You want to know
that break on that?
>> I think I think Jeff the question you're
saying is why not pull the addition
further up towards the road.
>> Yeah. and and move the and move the uh
the proposed uh workshop away from the
road and away from the uh the the side
variance to the right um and put it more
towards the garage.
>> So, we already uh communicated that it
is an option to move it to the 50 foot
center line uh in regard to the
sideyard. Um when you look at the we
call it the functionality, aesthetics,
etc. all of that uh location to the
existing cutaway for the driveway even
though we will be replacing that with
permeable uh papers of some kind. Um it
just makes the most sense there and it
should be within our ability or right to
do so because again it is less informing
or should I say more informing than the
current condition
>> and that's Mr. Rockefeller speaking.
>> Yes. Yeah. Sorry. Um, also, you know,
for utility lines going to the shed, we
kind of want them to line up as close as
possible with the existing util utility
lines that go to the house. So, if we
significantly move the location of that
shed, we'll probably have to be doing
some some more disturbance in order to
reroute those lines. I think we talked
about that at one point, didn't we?
So, um, ideally, you know, again,
pushing it so it's 50 foot back, we
that's that's an easier accommodation
than moving it completely out of the
sideyard.
Um, as I mentioned, the house itself is
closer to the property line. We have a
vested right to maintain that. Um, and
what we'd like to do is just swap it
out. Swap out the house for this shed
and make it more conforming. push it
back a bit, you know, but but moving it
too far into the interior of the
property um and closer to the existing
garage makes a disconnect in the
driveway.
>> The shop.
>> The shop. The woodshed. I'm sorry. I
call it the w wood shop. The shop.
>> Okay.
>> Sorry. Yes. The shop is what I'm
referring to.
>> I'm looking for a shed and I don't see a
shop.
>> Yeah.
>> Because the shop have those exercise
>> upstairs. Yep. The Yep. The workshop has
the exercise on the second floor.
>> Yeah.
>> But Wayne, can we ask you some
questions?
>> Right answer.
>> So
the workshop is not being called a
dwelling. I don't know what the
definition of a dwelling is. And if it
has a bathroom, I don't know what makes
it a dwelling. Somebody has to
>> have to have a purchase in as well. Um,
so there'll be three bedrooms on one
combined lot, but only one that
>> I understand. Yes.
>> Okay. And
so you can have two stories in your
dwelling. And so is there any height
restrictions to what we're doing with
the workshop?
>> 25 ft. Do you think the height reduction
the height
active height in the end? 22.
>> Yeah. 229.
>> 25 ft.
or building
and we are so I'm trying to remember the
numbers before but in terms of allowable
lot coverage so where did this listed in
that if it was not
>> the maximum lot coverage in the zone is
12%.
The current coverage on the two lots
combined is 25.47%. 47%
and the proposed on the two lots
combined is 25.14%.
So like one zero% less
>> this is this is way I would say the 26
square feet difference correct
>> which is less than a
>> from existing to proposed
>> and within the margin of error
>> right
>> thank you
>> okay I just have a I This is for one of
the attorneys my my
um according to the interpretation of
the ops and which I haven't
any of us heard of that that case before
um any increase in nonconformity
regardless of how it's balanced by any
increase in nonconformity means that
there is no consideration of hardship.
Is that is that
>> that is correct. All right.
But what I want to what I want but I I
don't want to influence the board's
decision. It's not my place. Right. But
a reduction in nonconformity as Riser
has said is grounds the granting of a
variance. Doesn't mean you have to grant
the variance. You still have the harmony
requirement. Do you think that on
balance the reduction in nonconformity
is a a public benefit sufficient to
support whatever increase they're
proposing? That's within your judgment.
But so so attorney Riser is absolutely
correct. A reduction of informity is a
legal ground upon which you may grant a
variance without any hardship.
And it doesn't mean you have to. you're
allowed to look at the plan and see
whether you Attorney Riser's argument is
that the the reduced coverage the the
elimination of house that these are all
cumulative benefits that justify what
they're proposing balanced by the
reduction but that's that's that's the
decision for you to make
>> just just to clarify
you said any reduction I I think the way
Adoffson put it was an overall reduction
um if you like weight it like a sport
type. That was my question earlier. It
if it it made it seem at least that the
decision was predicated on the fact that
there was an overall reduction of
nonconformity
>> and that's what that's what the
applicant is saying. They're saying that
we're reducing overall nonconformity in
a number of different respects. That's
their that's their position and that's
that's your goal. So, does this mean
that the CDA is no longer allowed to
rule based on hardship? Because there's
no hardship.
>> That's still a valid basis.
>> So, could this board, for example, say
no hardship, therefore,
>> that's not the base they're claiming
though.
>> The basis
on some other on some other application,
they may be basing it on hardship. These
applicants aren't. So up till now
because we read the state statutes that
are yes we we base our rulings on unique
hardship to that property and that's
what we've always based our rulings on
before and now we have someone coming
and saying well there's this case that
says that that
>> and I'm so pleased that that
>> that's a problem
>> and I'm so pleased your town attorney is
here because I do run into this issue
and and lots of boards struggle with it
because it's drilled into your head. You
can't grant a variance unless you find a
hardship. And you're right. That's what
the statute. That's what the statute
says. But there is a line of cases, a
well-developed line of case laws. It's
not based in statute. It's based on case
law. And I guess peripherally the
statutes and law on non-conforming uses,
but um it it's not specifically in the
statutes, but it's it's presidential
case law. It's superior court cases.
It's appellet court cases. the Supreme
Court cases that have said you do not
need to make any showing of hardship if
you are demonstrating a reduction or
elimination in nonconformities whether
that be use setbacks coverage what have
you. So my my question is if it's as
well established as your claim is why
hasn't it made it into statutes
tend to have this is so and then a list
of exceptions. Yeah.
>> And so why hasn't this been that list of
exceptions
>> because it it seems very difficult for
us to make a decision.
>> We've always made a decision. Now you
come in saying that we're not familiar
with that until just now.
>> Yeah. And you know, we're expected to
make a ruling based on something that
we're just learning about tonight. That
that's a problem. It it is up to the
American markets. The bars the planning
and zoning section of the bar
association of which attorney Riser and
I are both members actually drafted new
legislation for the general assembly
that we have submitted several years
running now
>> that would address not only this issue
but several others. For example, in
floodprone areas.
>> Mhm. you have to elevate a building.
>> And yet there have been cases that said
that's not hardship. Well, if it's in a
plugprone area and you've got to elevate
it, that seems like it ought to be, but
the courts have said it isn't. Uh, also
Americans with Disabilities Act is not
addressed in statutes. That is a that is
a ground for variances that is not in
statute and yet it's in the Americans
with Disabilities Act state and federal.
So we have tried to produce new
legislation that would fix all of this
and so far the general assembly simply
hasn't adopted it. Um so I read that one
of the reasons I know you wanted me here
is because this is new and it's not the
statute but it is in fact a ground upon
which you may grant a variance. The
reduction in the nonconformity is by
itself without hardship a ground for for
on which you may grant a variance.
And I'm not I didn't say you have to,
but you may. You have the authority, you
have the jurisdiction, you have the
discretion to look at this and say, is
this on balance a benefit to the
community, to the neighborhood, to the
law, etc.
>> Okay.
>> Is that is that a fair statement?
>> Okay. So, my my can I finish my line of
thinking and then I'll I'll shut um so
do we also have the discretion to say,
"Sorry, we don't see a hardship. We're
going to deny it." Is that
>> have we lost that discretion as a result
>> on this particular case? I would say
>> only on this case because they're not
basing their application on hardship.
>> Okay, because we've had something before
where people didn't make hardship,
right? We could say you didn't make
hardship.
>> Sorry.
>> Here they're saying we're not making
hardship argument because we don't have
to.
>> Correct.
>> Okay.
>> And they're right.
for the town attorney. Do you have
examples of case law where uh
someone applied for variance in the same
type of situation not for hardship and
it was denied by a zoning board and the
court upheld the zoning board rule on
denying that because on on a quick
search for cases precedent would
indicate
joining
can't do anything. You know, it's like,
okay, there's a non non nonconformity
reduction. So, courts are going to
uphold, you know, if if there if it went
to a a like a a trial from like
Rockefeller,
the court would uphold
and approve the variances essentially
like overrule the zoning board denying
the variances. Let me put it
>> Let me put it this way.
>> If you decide that you feel the
reductions in nonconformity
justify what is being proposed here and
you grant the variance and a neighbor
appeals, I am confident that I can win
on appeal. If you deny it because you
conclude that the decrease in
nonconformities is not sufficient to
justify what is shown here, I am
confident that I can win that appeal.
the board, a court is going to uphold
your discretion. The only way a court is
not going to uphold you is if you say
there's no hardship because they're not
basing their application on hardship,
>> right?
>> All right. That's the
>> I don't Yeah.
>> Okay. That's I think what I was grasling
with people.
>> And I I listen this in maybe 40 years.
I've never lost for you. Okay.
>> I tend to start now.
>> Well, here's here's the problem with my
line of thinking. find both sides but
probably more
but but I have seen in our little
>> I didn't think that it was
>> where they allow the variance based on
the reduction in the nonconformities but
I think there are cases where they
didn't necessarily move it because of
that but I think there's a lot where
they did
>> yes
>> so it's kind of
>> a little bit of common sense and looking
at the whole picture and seeing if you
feel like you know it's worth it.
>> Yeah. I just didn't like I'm very new
here. So
>> yeah,
why don't you ask?
>> Well, and this way of looking at it is
new regardless of how long you've been,
>> right? This this is a new this is a new
thing,
>> right? Anyway,
>> and I'm glad to be here, though.
>> There's no doubt in my mind that what
they're proposing is going to be an
asset to the visual look of that lake
property. Why?
because
it's not terribly attractive in the
current
the way it's been developed. Removing
this second house
and then you'll see just these small
work uh shop. No, the these are smaller
than the house. That's what I'm leading
up to. Okay. You're going to have a view
about here and around this way of a lot
more of the lake. And for anybody
looking at it, it's going to look like a
very attractive lake.
>> Are you sure not to get into
deliberations yet public hearing?
>> Yeah, that's my
addressical approach.
>> We should be addressing the applicant.
No. And
>> all right. That'll come. Okay.
>> And there is there is u and somebody up
here on uh on Zoom. I don't know who
want to make sure.
>> Who is that?
>> That's Pete George in our neighbor.
>> Okay.
>> Oh, okay. Okay. So, he he's
>> he's our neighbor.
>> Okay.
>> He's across the street from us.
>> Does he Does he wish to address the
board?
>> Well, yes, we can certainly say he wants
>> Yes.
>> Is this a good time?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Hi, my name is Pete Turjan. As
Kimberly said, I've lived across the
street from the Rockefellers for 35
years and u they are outstanding
neighbors, not just because they're
wonderful people, but because everything
they have done with their property over
the 35 years has um been a positive
impact to not just the lake, but to our
our street. So, um, anything that
anything that they have done in the
past, including this right now, they've
always talked to their neighbors about
first. Uh, Steve was over on at my
property making sure that whatever they
were proposing would not impact my view
negatively of the lake. U, I mean, they
are very sensitive to maintaining the
character and beauty of this area.
That's why they've lived here for 35
years. And I know they won't say it's a
hardship, but I mean they have a growing
family and the house that they live in
does not support the family that they're
in right that they have right now. And
that's the need for the addition. And um
I'd hate to lose them as neighbors and I
think this town would suffer a loss if
they were to have to leave just because
they can't support their family within
the confines of the house that they've
lived in for more than 35 years. So
that's my two cents.
Thanks. Hi, I'm Kathleen Barrett. I'm
also a a neighbor of the Rockefellers. I
live directly across the street right
next door to the urgent. Um and I
>> Are you a board member? A member of the
board?
>> No, I'm a member of the member of the
community.
>> I know it's confusing at the table. It's
hard for me to tell who's who.
Um, I came tonight to um say exactly
what Pete said, and that is that the
Rockefellers have been wonderful
neighbors. Their property is
meticulously maintained and beautifully
maintained and they've always exhibited
real care for um their neighbors um and
for the appearance of their property.
And so I know you have a lot to think
about as you make the decision, but I
hope that you'll consider that as well.
Be glad to see them move forward as
soon. So thank you for that.
May I speak? I'm Wendy Baylor. I'm also
a neighbor of the Rockefellers and I'm
totally fine with what they want to do.
Um, I appreciate what they informed me
about it
having the opportunity. I didn't know
there was so much to, you know, to do
what? And, uh, I hope they get to do
what they want. I think they deserve to.
So for the neighbors,
you you guys are not concerned that if
the workshop is closer to the road that
it will I was thinking it might block
your view of the lake if you across the
street a little bit. But I mean if
you're okay with that, right? Cuz right
I I live by it is a beautiful property.
I agree. The little house is nice too
that you bought you know that property
looks pretty nice too and that house is
way down the front right now. So now the
building will be closer to the low. You
guys have any concerns?
>> You know, I value my neighbors and I'll
be able to I'll be able to continue to
see even if it blocks my view a little.
I'll be able to see over and elevate
them. So thank you for asking.
>> I I also this is Pete Turjent again. I
also echo what Kathleen said and any
difference you is more than offset by
keeping them here. So,
>> and I'm right on the lake, so I don't
>> Yeah.
>> Are you Are you on the facing the lake?
Are you on the right side of them or the
um
>> You're facing their house. I'm on the
left. I'm 75.
I just have a clarifying question for
the attorneys since I want to make sure
that we're doing what we're supposed to
do here. Um, so we are deliberating not
based on hardship,
>> but whether we think that on balance the
the increases and decreases in
nonconformity and lease square footage
and all that stuff uh
are positive and we would grant that
back. Is that essentially what
>> that is? Exactly right.
>> Okay. So, we have the discretion to say
yes or to say no. And but it's just
there
>> and you could also condition or modify
too. I mean, Attorney Riser said if you
want the the shop set back 50 to 50
foot, they can do that.
>> Um they were trying to keep it farther
from the lake, I think is what you said.
>> Yes, we'd like it as far from the lake
and as close to the existing driveway as
possible. But but there that's that's a
commission they've offered and you may
there may be others that you're thinking
of. I don't know what they would be, but
um Okay.
Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> I really don't have anything else to um
propose or to offer. If you have further
questions, happy to answer them. Um we
do think that
and in the big global picture, the
consolidation of these two smaller
properties,
separate houses and and all the
amenities that go with it. We do think
that this is more in keeping to
consolidate them into one. It it's a a
net more conforming
um situation. We believe ultimately
again it's it's for you to decide does
it fit in overall with the surrounding
um development in the area and we
propose it does. We hope you'll agree.
We, you know, we're glad to have the
support of our neighbors in this. Um,
and, um, you know, having one slightly
larger house for his family rather than
two separate homes is is just more
desirable for him. Makes sense at this
point and is the the whole reason behind
this consolidation.
>> Yes. No further comments need to be
heard.
>> Thank you. Okay.
>> With uh the new house being better, will
the septic be better?
>> Yes.
>> Yes. We have to work with health
department in order to have now a code
compliant septic system.
>> So they'll and and I think the the
Andrew our ser our engineer also said
that there'll be less sewage going in
now because you have just the one house
versus two. Correct.
So there will be two so two existing
septic systems will be removed and then
one will be put in and according to
modern modern standard correct
>> so are they going to because remove the
old septic systems and what the
associated soil goes with that is that
what goes along with that
>> um remove the tanks and then whatever
there are for le structures you know for
structures if it's just stone I leave it
>> okay if there's like a eyes out or
something or or fill it in. Pump it out
and just fill it.
>> Correct me if I'm wrong. Typically, you
pump it out and just crush the tank.
>> Yeah. If most of the time,
but so the old ones will be both be
removed. We're not going to call them.
Okay.
Any else have anything to say before we
move on to our next phase?
hearing.
>> Thank you for your time. Thank you.
Thank you for
the hearing. So close the public
hearing. Yeah.
Close this part. It says continue.
Continue public hearing. Close your
work. Okay. So close to the public
hearing. Continue on to the next phase.
Regular meet.
Yes. All right.
>> Around.
He doesn't like mine. It was just
>> my kids.
>> I guess
Sorry. You want
to keep
going? So this
business
that's a great idea.
All right. So,
>> yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Mark, did you find out about that
meeting?
>> No.
>> I don't know why I'm not getting the
notices.
Um I can tell you our system for a while
is blocking any
>> group
that
just
showing
sex.
>> Yeah. Right.
I'm so glad you're here.
It's discussing element
now here
listening
but there's room
officially.
>> Yeah,
>> I got a call.
>> Yeah.
I think as
>> I'll find it. Thank you.
Sorry.
>> Yeah. The empire is still screw
>> and sometimes
present
as a reason.
That's true.
Yeah.
different
Right.
>> Is this
how you would fold?
Hold
it like that.
>> That too, but I have that.
>> The super All
right. So, let's do our our call to
order. So, we have our
new members. We have our some new
members. Um, and so, uh, I guess we
welcome and what order should I do this
in? So, our new fulltime are Michael
Greenhouse. Okay. And to Julia.
So, welcome. and Jefferson
the elected alterate. Okay. Um I think
has been with us for a while you
alternative has been with us for a while
been with us for a few months now and
what we need to do
chair um has stepped out. He's going to
stay with the third but some
what do we need to do?
>> Seat seat see the
>> seat members see the members.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. So we seat our new members
Julia and Michael. Okay. Um and we need
to see one alternative out of our two.
Is that is that correct?
>> Correct. So you need five.
>> Okay. Um, so do we need to make a motion
to do that or how do we
>> the chairman? You can just designate who
is the the voting the voting al whoever
is not the voting voting alderman can't
speak.
>> Okay. I'd prefer to have June because
she's been with us and you know you'll
have another another chance at but
because of June's experience I thought
it would be good to see her. Okay. And
we
>> and then we do have
this gentleman.
>> He's a full time.
>> Yes. I'm fulltime.
>> Yes. So we seat you and Mike and we'll
see Jeff but not for tonight I guess. I
don't know how we how we work how we
word that but we welcome you anyway.
So for the record the
members
fulltime members
are
>> Julia
>> H E R
>> and Michael Green
Oliver
John Ross
alternate
seated
and
>> right
>> Kathleen.
>> Very good.
Um so we did need to elect officers
here. I'm not sure how. So um because uh
Bill is stepping down um and your wife
uh this is the first meeting after the
election. So um you need to you need to
the chair and a vice chair.
>> Okay. So
>> okay
>> now leave it up to you. You're
>> I'd like to make a motion that we
elect Oliver chair.
Second. Okay.
Okay, put a second that
>> we all did, but sure.
>> I mean, I wouldain abstain from that, I
guess. Um, anyone against it? Okay. All
in favor?
>> I Okay, thanks everybody. Um, I move to
elect Bill Nixar vice, but can we do
that without him here?
Well, I can't tell you that, but
>> you probably have a right to do these
thing with it quite a lot. Yes, he has.
>> He knows the way the committee operates
and
>> the legalities of lots of things over
these years he's been here. So, he would
be a reasonable vice chair.
>> I think it's already for
you are you interested in that?
>> No.
So second
>> I move to elect Roers as our our vice
chair.
>> Okay.
>> I f Julia second. Okay.
>> Anybody against that? Okay.
>> So it shall be that's
>> all right. So our meeting schedule. Did
anybody take a look at the meeting
schedule? send this stack of stuff
pretty soon.
>> It's still there. So bad.
>> So for the board, I I took the liberty
of of proposing the traditional third
Wednesday of the month. I did have a
discussion with Bill prior to that.
He confers.
>> Okay.
Do we need to make the motion to do that
or we just agree that they're clear
third? Are we skipping December? Is that
>> Yeah.
>> This is 2026.
>> 2026.
>> So it would be the third.
>> So So but all right. So we're scheduled
for December 17th. If we get if we have
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. We only need
>> I would motion to accept that in
>> Okay. Motion. Yeah. You need a motion.
Okay. Um, so do we have a motion to
accept the 2026 schedule?
>> Finish
second. Second.
>> Okay. Any discussion about that?
>> Who was the second?
>> Okay. All in favor?
>> I
already
get
out of the way.
So, any additions or changes to our
agenda?
>> Public comment. So, anything not on this
agenda that anyone wanted to break up?
>> That
old business.
Any old business? I don't think so.
>> No business that I'm aware of. Okay.
>> I I had a question being new to this
whole thing. Um there was proposal for
zone change uh by fish farm um to do the
farm the farm uh
the venues or whatever whatever happened
with that.
>> That's with the planning and zoning
commission.
>> Okay.
>> Thank you. And they and they did adopt a
new regulation,
>> right? That new regulation was adopted
last night.
>> No, I mean we haven't heard.
>> Yeah. That to allow aggra business. I'll
call generically aggra business.
>> I have yet I have to do some things with
that regulation.
>> Frank is going to tell me what to do.
So our new business is deliberate
deliberating and acting on the
application of Steven Rockefeller
received
from sections 11.2 and 4.1.4 Four, the
end of their zoning regulations, merge
dots with Indiana interested at 45 and
47 Lakeside Drive, demolish an existing
residence at 45 Lakeside Drive,
construct an addition to 47 Lakeside
Drive, and construct a workshop. The
overall proposal intends to decrease
rear yard and sideyard nonconformities
that currently exist. It will also
require front yard and sideyard
variances or a composed.
So, uh, now is our time to deliberate
that. So, Jeff, sorry you're not going
to be included in this, but you're too
>> I can speak. Correct. Daniels can't vote
if he's not seated.
>> No. No.
>> So, just listen in, I guess, or whatever
you want.
>> Lawyer, I'm sorry, but
>> I'm sorry. this quarter. My name is Mark
M A R K. The last name is B R A N S E
Br.
>> So, you're very familiar from the videos
in my
last
>> I I I mean that that book I'm pretty
been involved in that.
I do a lot of teaching stuff. Yeah. You
probably seen me at the clear videos and
stuff.
>> Yeah. I think I've been your attorney
since 19 I think 84. I had a little gap
in there, but I don't know if I've
represented your lady stuff for a long
time.
>> Well, thank
was a very good year for me.
>> Sorry. 84.
>> 84.
>> Okay. So, uh discussion with
deliberation about this application.
Got some thoughts that you want to share
with us.
So I'm just kind of coming around
because I think the whole picture
it's making some things a little less
egregious. I would like to see the
workshop pushed back though instead of
adding
to me that's adding
non-conforming that really isn't there
right now. So I would like to stop that
from happening but I think
Um,
and it probably is doesn't have a lot to
do with this committee, but I think the
overall
>> having one family on the two lots is
probably going to be better for the lake
and the property. Um,
>> that that is relevant.
>> So,
>> that is something you can consider.
>> Yeah. So, I'm
I'm lean leaning leaning forward if
they'll move the workshop back.
>> Okay.
Why why do you want to move and drive
back? Because it's it's it's a
nonconformity that they're going to add
if they put it as close to the road as
they have on there. I mean, they're
saying the other garage is already even
closer. But
that's no reason to put a new building
in a spot where it maybe doesn't have to
be nonconform
they agreed they could put back a little
bit
of
>> regulations
I don't think that
big consideration in this application
because
moving to bring in a new
large
and there may be the need to have it
closer to the road as it
plans we just saw
in order to allow for that to be um
worked out.
we require them to move it and then it
turns out they don't have the right
amount
ever for a full is they're not going to
be able to put in one of the ones on
that uh in the early days when
and some of them are still on lots of
small but they're very minimal and they
have to be pumped very often. So rather
than move that
when they like need the space, you want
to move it closer to the water. Right.
That
>> is still not going to be within any
limits on that side.
>> I don't think I don't think
>> that's I don't think the septic's a
problem.
>> Yeah. No matter where you move it, um
Julia, I don't I don't foresee the the
workshop impinging on the septic system.
The septic system is going to be where
the old house was,
>> which is closer to the water than the
building.
>> Yeah. So if you look I don't know if you
can see it on this. I would just not
make any restrictions to the approval of
the application regarding that because
we generally have parameters for where
the 76
>> we do all that
>> that's under the system essentially
where the
>> so it's essentially where the footprint
of the house is this is the footprint of
the house that the proposed demol
it's Hard to see, but the proposal to
put the septic system back together
where that house was.
>> Okay.
>> And eliminate septic system that was
that was for this house and and and
existing septic systems for this house
and this house that they're going to
launch if that correct.
>> Can you remind me while you have that
was the paved driveway at 45? Was that
also slated to Yes.
to be removed or stay the same.
>> No, they're going to
>> depends on the thing.
>> I I can
but I can.
>> You can.
>> Okay. Um the driveway, they're going to
replace it with a pvious service.
>> So, the driveway at 45,
>> which is where they're proposing to do
the uh workshop,
>> the workshop,
>> is going to be replaced with a per. So,
it wouldn't be such a I don't want to
use the term hardship because that means
something else in this, but it wouldn't
be such an inconvenience to them to move
that proposed workshop another 6 and 1/2
ft back if they're planning to
>> the proponents are agreed the proponents
agree on that snow,
>> right?
>> So, I don't think that that really
um so I say is it Joan?
>> Yes. So then therefore I think that
would be a reasonable thing to include
in the in the if if the variance is
>> that's the
problem I'm not
>> I don't I'm here to provide information
>> at the same time I don't necessarily see
that required because it it is a
reduction in
>> there's nothing there's nothing
>> there's nothing nonconforming on that
lot by the road. So, they're going to
they're going to make that
>> they're removing nonconformities on the
sideyards
>> or lessening one and one goes away
because they're joining the two lots.
>> I understand.
>> But then they're adding a nonconformity
to the front.
>> So, it creates a new nonformity
existing one
>> if you're treating it as its own
independent lot.
>> Not a huge deal for
>> and separate from 47. Okay. I uh I was
>> Yeah, I'm seeing things similar to Joan
because we're we're looking at think
about your typical residential lot. You
have a house and a garage and here we're
talking about a lot that's going to have
a house and a garage and a garage and
then the workshop. So yeah, so that's
where that's the trouble I'm having with
this is the is really that they'll fail
in with regard to you know adding on
that what could be argued as a non
children.
I did also agree with the um addition of
uh
having it be a non-dwelling classified
as non-dwelling roof
>> and you're talking about the
>> the workshop the proposed workshop.
>> Yeah,
>> this one
>> especially if they're not going to
approve a bathroom there anyway.
>> Yeah,
>> exactly.
>> Yeah, that wouldn't get to zoning with
it. But that may not be our purview.
Maybe
>> we can we do have the right to place
some and zoning would probably do their
own to
conditions.
>> Anthony have
I find where it is. Are you afraid?
>> I
unless when they start moving things
around, you know, things might change
then. Sometimes you come up with things
that you didn't think were going to
happen,
but I think it's okay what it is.
>> Well, I think strictly speaking, they
can't really move things around once you
guys
>> make a decision.
>> Decision, right?
>> Okay.
>> Well, the same way you wouldn't move
your garage around in your own yard,
right?
Unless you had way more money or
whatever, but right now you get the bill
and still
that's why we need to think in the
future.
So yeah, I guess my what stick with me
related to college is the the addition
of that that workshop as
well might be considered a and not or
maybe it didn't have to exist. the
addition on the house. Nice growing
family. That's a great thing. Uh but
there's already a garage there that
adding that relatively large workshop is
a lot of trouble.
>> Well, it was
it wasn't there. So, right now there's
nothing there, I guess.
>> Correct.
And I don't have any problem with the
the way the layout is because it leaves
all this
unimpeded area for a septic area. And I
suppose there's some room here, but it
may not be able to be so close to a
bathroom. But I like it the way it's set
up now because there's this pretty
uninrupted
piece of property.
So why move a fairly small building
which was not on where it is?
>> Well, it's a question of do, you know,
keep the building as is, ask for it to
be moved or ask for it not to exist in
in the first place.
>> I wouldn't do that. I would leave it.
>> Well, those are the things we can Yeah,
we can do.
>> No, I would just put
>> the fact that they have it where it is.
It's not according to the neighbors and
getting the view of the light.
So I'm just leave the approve I think
they want to approve the plan as it
exists.
>> Okay.
>> Any further discussions? Anyone want to
make a motion in one direction? But yes,
if you have that, can you put that up
screen?
>> Um Mr. G did a motion for you earlier
today based on the discussions that I
heard tonight. I made some changes to
it. It's about to go up on screen. all
the time
>> and you'll see what I added to what he
drafted. Is it red line so you can
quickly see what I what I added and you
obviously this is just to get you
started. It is your decision and and I
have it on screen so I can make any
changes you want. It just you won't see
it up there yet. I I I couldn't figure
out how to connect my computer to that
screen. All right. So I can see it and I
can print it for you. But um
>> yeah, I saw what Yeah, Wayne G. So he I
I I I have some language based on what I
heard you saying. So let's see see if it
works. See if the technology works.
Right. There it is.
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's I don't know why
it's that filling up in red light. I
can't I can't
deny variance.
grant partial.
Those are the three overall. So either
grant the barrier time being uppercut
den
>> or grant it with some conditions. Those
are
>> I can't read that very
>> and it's I don't know why it's not
showing up in red either. Um I can I can
read to you what I added.
>> I can read Well, I've got another
>> here. Oh,
modified
>> what I gave you.
>> Okay.
>> But I can read you what I added. You can
decide whether this was
>> this is what's
it is up there on screen. This is not
>> this is not attorney Branch has taken
what I gave you and and added some
language.
>> Okay. So that's this is a modified
version,
>> right? Yeah. And what what's supposed to
be in red begins with this condition
specifically and I'll read it out loud.
This condition specifically includes but
is not. So the the I'll read the prior
sentence which was already there. This
variance is a condition upon compliance
with the plans submitted in support of
the application in any statements made
by the application in its application
materials or presentations to the board.
And by the way because in a recent case
you need that should be boilerplate in
every variance that you grant that
sense. Uh this condition specifically
includes but is not limited to the
applicant statement that there will be
no occupancy transient or otherwise in
the proposed workshop nor any commercial
activity. This variance is also
conditioned upon there being no bathroom
in the workshop building but only a
utility sink. Now that last sentence is
I thought I heard a contest on that but
not that's something we consider. This
does not have anything about moving the
workshop to bring it to corners at 50
ft. That's something we can add if you
want it added, but I don't know whether
or not because I heard division or that.
Well, another option is just say no to
the workshop, right? There's another
option that is out there. I guess choose
to go that direction. Okay.
So, I I have another
set of deliberations I guess. Are we
feeling comfortable that we come to a
decision tonight? Because another thing
I saw in one of his things is that we
can if we don't feel that we can make a
decision push it off but do we
is that also an option or do you think
we can come to a decision?
>> Only make sure if you push it off that
you have the same five members
>> the next meeting
>> otherwise you only have four
>> and you will be meeting in December. If
I could comment to that, I think during
the um
first we're calling this the regular
meeting, so I'll call that the irregular
meeting.
Um I think my question directed toward
attorney Brance regarding you know if
this is denied like can it be contested
and XYZ I think I was only asking that
on on the basis that I just didn't know
process
um
>> is you and I have
>> but yeah
>> regular members
>> yeah but I mean based on the
presentation and I mean yeah I I get
that we're just kind of um
hearing about these uh past prevident
cases like tonight, but it sounds like
the Connecticut would would uphold those
variances being allowed. Um and attorney
Brad said, "Yeah, I could I could win
for you guys if I needed to, but I don't
think that that's a reason to to deny
it."
>> Right.
>> Yeah. I said either way, approve or
deny.
>> Yeah. But I don't think that that's a
reason to deny it based off of what I've
heard. Um, and seeing in the plans I and
and just thinking in a neighborly sense,
um, and also driving by that property
and and knowing it, I'd be inclined to
approve it
>> with
certain Okay.
>> So, so I would Is it too soon to make a
motion? I would make a motion to approve
the house edition
and the work shop, but
attorney Branch's wording on the new no
dwelling in the workshop and I would
like to require the new workshop be 50
ft from the center line of the road to
comply with that.
That would be my motion if anybody wants
to second it.
I and I would um can I add to that as
well that I think if it's a non dwelling
structure, I don't think it's so
important to condition it based on the
fact that there's no bathroom there. If
they can place a bathroom there out of
convenience and it's tied into the
modern updated septic, I don't think
that that needs to be a condition of
granting variance, but more so to not be
used as a dwelling for transient. You
know, you don't
>> Yeah,
>> I think more so. So, I'm not so
concerned about if they can get approved
for a bath and I don't know how that
works, but if they can get approved for
a bathroom, I wouldn't say no bathroom.
I would I would predicate it more on
>> can't be dwelling.
>> Can't be dwelling.
>> Is that a consent system? We should take
that out.
>> Well, there's no no dwelling. No
commercial. Wouldn't commercial be not
in the zoning clause for the lake?
>> Well, the this this problem is this
building would exceed the size for a
home occupation if it were to be used
for a home occupation.
>> Okay. So, and but but before this
hearing, long before this hearing
opened, I asked attorney Riser, are you
are you seeking a variance from the size
of a home occupation? The answer is no,
we are not because this is not a home
occupation. And she's reiterated that
tonight.
>> So, should I I I should I is your
thought I should take out about the the
no bathroom? Is that
>> that doesn't concern me as much as the
no dwelling? I just want to make sure
it's not a door like it goes through
just a whole bunch of
>> that makes sense.
>> So I'm just going to read that last
sentence the language the way I've got
it now and it's not on screen because
again they're not connected. This
condition specifically includes but does
not limit it to the applicant statement
that there will be no occupancy transit
or otherwise in the proposed workshop or
any commercial activity. This approval
was also conditioned on the workshop
complying with the 50 foot setback from
the street. I know you're I don't know
if you're together on that one, but
that's
>> Well, I I would like my motion to
include
>> Oh, yeah. That's right. So, that that's
that's why I put it in there.
>> Okay. So, people can vote it down
>> and that motion is in um agreeing to
also the the addition and the workshop.
So, that's that's like the whole
>> just I I have it as proposed except as
modified. Okay. Okay. I would second
that motion.
>> So, it's on the table.
>> Yeah. I would like to discuss a little
bit. I I also like the idea of I think
it should be an endome so many laws, but
it's not like but that that the
applicant voluntarily
uh ask for a permeable pavement. I think
that's a beautiful thing wherever
there's water nearby. So, I would like
through and the plan the plan shows
that's well that's already in the plan.
Okay.
>> Yeah, that's on the plan.
>> Yeah. that I put that did a compliance
with the plan submitted.
>> Okay.
>> So that's already that language is
already in there. It's compliance with
the plan submitted.
>> It's not perable pavement. It's they're
replacing the pulling the pavement out
and replacing it with
>> permeable
>> permeable surface.
>> Oh, right.
>> Pavers.
>> Okay.
>> Does And have a definition for permeable
surface?
as it has a definition for impervious is
it
>> because I know coastal towns are doing a
lot
>> surface is per
>> well they also make concrete that has
that's more porous than regular concrete
>> when they stamp it and it's solid and
water can't get through it.
>> No, they make concrete that water can
get through it but which is not we don't
get to go down our road here.
>> They're doing a lot of that stuff in
coastal areas.
>> Okay.
>> I didn't know that. That's why you have
to speak.
So there's a motion on the table.
>> So would you like to So
>> Will you just read the motion for us one
more time to make sure you'll be on
screen right?
>> Yep. And I am sending it to uh Reena.
>> Send it to me too. I think I can put it
up on the screen.
>> You Oh, okay. All right. Hang on.
>> Yeah. I was going to have my email right
open.
>> Oh, okay. Glorious
to travel.
CC rain
and over. There we go. Okay. And
all righty. Insert.
Best course I took in high school was
typing. Yeah, me too. Huh? It's not the
same kind of typing.
>> Still the same.
>> Now kids just go like that.
>> That's the most useful thing.
>> Oh, it so is. Yeah.
>> Despite the arthritis. Okay, that did
come in a second. Now,
>> now are we adding or changing anything
to the words here? That's what it is.
That's what it turns to.
>> Okay. So, we can follow along on this
because I can't read whatever
>> he's going to
that's that's the page.
We just got over tune in here.
>> I can
like the wizard.
Wait.
There we go.
This is what we Sorry. The red is what
is the red line is what
>> Let me share the screen. Oh, you got it.
>> Oh, you're on Jim. I thought Jim was on
here
>> or otherwise in the proposed workshop.
That's what you were saying.
>> Any commercial activity? Yes, there's
also conditional on the line with the 50
foot set on the street
>> from the road center line. Correct.
>> Road center line. Yeah, I should say.
>> Yeah,
>> actually your regulation is
>> here.
Oh, it's
>> okay.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
That's a hardship person.
>> How do you move? You know, it's not
there yet.
>> Okay, then I got
>> Yeah, I thought they were making them.
I just wanted them to
>> I got it. I just need
>> Okay. Anybody else need to read this?
>> It's up on the screen as big as I can
make it. Yeah, if I understand that
>> it doesn't say center line up there.
That's where I got
the
>> are relative to center.
>> So,
I think you guys are too.
>> I seconded and we're discussing and
reading it again.
>> Okay. Does anyone have anything to say
about that?
>> I'm ready to call a question.
>> Vote me. Yeah.
>> Vote your vote. Okay. So,
>> and remember, you need a supermajority.
>> Four four affirmative votes.
>> Four out of five. Four out of five.
>> Four affirmative votes. Yes.
>> Okay. So, uh second. So, we second the
motion and then we say all is in favor.
Okay. So, Julie second motion. All in
favor?
Okay. Nothing said no. All right.
>> Thank you for
>> that gives us the floor. Yeah.
Uh, for the record, can you
Michael Greenhouse? Affirmative.
>> Julia, affirmative.
>> And then
I want Marina to
>> Got it.
>> to get it for the for the minutes.
>> Okay. And that final motion with the
word center line is now in your clerk's
box and also your seats.
>> Thank you for your time tonight.
>> Thank you everyone.
>> Appreciate the time and consideration.
>> Congratulations guys. Good luck.
>> Thank you.
>> Looking for a zoning permit or wetland
application. Oh yeah, we know at the
beginning. We know
>> something
better.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> Put him at the next meeting. Yeah, I
think
>> that's
>> okay.
>> We need a majority for the for the
minutes. The minutes
do that.
>> You didn't have a meeting tonight.
We didn't have a meeting left.
>> I just
didn't get it.
>> Your fault.
>> All right.
>> We'll let you
everyone.
>> Just so you know for future efforts, you
don't have to have been at the meeting
to vote on the minutes.
>> Okay. I always assume that.
>> Yeah. A lot of people do, but Robert,
first of all, don't require it. What
you're doing is you're simply in you're
endorsing what they say, right? And if
you have confidence in your clerk and
your colleagues who are there, you can
vote yes. You don't have to have been
there.
>> All right. So, do we feel comfortable
voting to adopt the September 17th
minutes or do we want to put that on?
>> Oh, I think it
>> Let's do it. Okay. So, someone want to
make a motion in that regard?
>> Okay. Le moves to accept the September
17th committance. I was tapping in.
>> Second.
>> Well, she came because she wasn't there.
>> Says she can.
>> Were Were either of you there?
>> You were not there.
>> So, you were and you would you feel
comfortable seconding the minutes?
>> Oh, yeah. But
you had to even here is that we're at
the last meeting here. So,
>> yeah.
>> Okay. All in favor?
>> Okay. Anybody? Anybody against?
Okay. So, so shity. Okay. Um any board?
So, our next meeting assuming we have
you do anything coming up that you're
already knowing. Okay. So, if anything
comes up December 17th,
any other questions, ideas, thoughts?
Um, one thing I will bring up and maybe
it's out of order a little bit, but um,
to my knowledge after a diligent
diligent search of the records, I can
find no bylaws for the zoning board of
appeals.
>> Oh,
>> and that is something I believe chair
might want to take up in coming months.
>> I wish
boards aren't required to have them, but
most do
>> and it's not a bad idea. By the way, I
know that um Jed Larson fairly recently
revised the TPZ ones.
>> Take a look at those. Just
>> Okay.
>> Getting started before getting
>> when we get there. I'll suggest that the
PNZ bylaws are probably pretty
>> I don't know serve as boiler plate.
>> I'll ask Bill.
>> I asked Bill.
Uh, I searched the town clerk's office.
>> That's why he's not here. He doesn't
want to deal with this.
>> A lot of courts don't have it. So, don't
feel alone.
>> Is it a law or recommendation?
>> It's just a It's not a good It's not a
bad idea.
>> Do you know of any neighboring towns who
have published theirs?
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. So, we can
>> You're not going to reinvent the wheel.
>> Okay.
>> There's there's lots of sales you can
use.
>> All right. All
right. Uh, so, uh, if anyone want to
move to adjurnn,
>> I'll move to adjourn.
>> I'll second
choice.
>> Thank you guys. You did well. New
members and tough and
you right to the frying pan with this
one. Bam.